mapply is a loop function that tries, is a
multivariate version
of the kind of lapply and sapply functions
that you've seen previously.
And the idea is that it applies a
function in parallel over a set of
different arguments.
So one thing we have noticed about
the previous functions, lapply, sapply,
tapply, is that,
they have only, they only apply a function
over the elements of a single object.
So, for example, if you think about
lapply,
the input to lapply was a list.
A single list, that is.
And then the function was applied over the
elements of that list.
So, what happens if you have two lists
that you want to apply a function over?
And so, and suppose you have two lists,
and
the elements of the first list go into one
argument of the function, and the elements
of the
second list go into another argument of
the function.
So lapply and sapply can't really be used
for that purpose.
So one way to do that is just to write
a for loop, where the for loop will index
the elements
of each of the different lists, and then
you can
pass a function to each of those elements
of the list.
Another way to do that though is with
mapply, where mapply can take multiple
list arguments and
then apply a function to the, to the
elements of those, of the multiple lists,
in parallel.
So the function arguments for mapply are a
little bit different, just because it has
to allow for the possibility of a variable
number of arguments.
So here, the first argument to mapply is
the function that you want to apply.
And the function that you're going to pass
to mapply
has to have, the number of arguments that
the function
takes has to be at least as many as the
number of lists that you're going to pass
to mapply.
So the list that, the things that will be
coerced to
a list, will be passed through the dot dot
dot argument.
And so if you have three lists, you'll
pass three objects and
then your function has to take at least
three arguments to it.
So, the more args, argument is just if you
have
more arguments and you need to pass to
your function.
And a simplified argument is similar to
the simplify arguments
that you saw in sapply and also in in
tapply.
So, here, for example, I'm creating a list
here, and
the list has, I'm going to repeat 1 four
times, the
integer 1 four times, I'm going to repeat
2 three times,
I'm going to repeat 3 two times, and
repeat 4 just once.
So it's a little bit tedious to have to
type something to do, even
though this is a fairly artificial
example,
but with mapply, it's actually quite
simple.
I can just do mapply rep, so, rep is the
repeat
function And then, repeat, it has two
arguments, so, the first set
of arguments is going to be 1 through 4,
and the second set of arguments is
going to be 4 through 1, and you can see
that in list above here.
The first argument was 1, 2, 3, and 4, and
the second argument was 4, 3, 2, and 1.
So, that's, so those are the two sets
of arguments that I'm going to pass to
mapply.
And you can see that when I do that, I get
my list of four 1s,
three 2s, two 3s and one 4, just like the
list that I have above here.
So mapply is, can be used to apply a
function to multiple sets of arguments.
So, here's just another very simple
function.
It just generates some random normal
noise.
And these, and, see, the rnorm, the, the,
I'm sorry, the function has three
arguments the,
the number of observations the value of
the
mean, and the value of the standard
deviation.
So, if I just apply noise to, with a
single set of arguments, 5, 1 and 2.
I get 5 random normal variables with the
mean 1 and standard variation 2.
However, this function doesn't work
really correctly if I pass it a vector of
arguments.
So, now what's happening is, I get a
vector of 5, here.
When I pass it 1 through 5 and 1 through
5.
But, really what I want to happen is to
have one, one random normal with mean 1,
two random
normals with mean 2, three random normals
with mean
3, etc, and then five random normals with
mean 5.
And, so that's what I get here, when I use
the mapply function onto the and if I
vectorize this noise function I give it,
you know, three sets of arguments, so it's
1 through 5, 1 through 5, and then 2.
So I, I'm always going to fix the standard
deviation to be 2, but
I'm going to be changing the n and I'm
going to be changing the mean.
So now I've got one random variable with a
mean 1, I got two with
mean 2, three with mean 3, four with mean
4 and then five with mean 5.
So that's how I can instantly
vectorize a function that doesn't allow
for vector arguments.
So this is the same as, as I were to
manually type out a list with these five
different function calls.
So this way, it's, it's nice to be able to
instantly, kind of, create a
function that doesn't allow for vector
inputs and
to and to kind of instantly vectorize it.